Deployment preview documentation (#2964)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/releases/2023-02/deployment-previews.mdx

---
date: 2023-02-24
title: Custom Application deployment previews
description: Introducing deployment previews for Custom Applications.
type: announcement
topics:
  - Merchant Center
  - Configuration
---

> Custom Applications now lets you add deployment previews, where you can test new features before publishing your Custom Application to the production environment.

Reviewer: Please add a link to the docs where we explain what the feature is and how to use it.

Reviewer: Also, it might be good to have some sort of migration steps described.

Author: Sure. The release note is in WIP. @mmaltsev-ct will help me.
- I'll add the link to docs.
- Can you highlight a bit more on the migration steps required?

Reviewer 2: Here is my suggestion for the release notes:

Reviewer 2: Custom Applications now let you generate deployment previews, where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment. With the first version of this feature, it is possible to manually create static environments using the Merchant Center. A static URL, where the Custom Application will be deployed, can then be assigned to each of the environments.

You can read more about this feature in the new [Deployment previews](https://docs.commercetools.com/custom-applications/concepts/deployment-previews) chapter of our documentation.

As always, if you have questions or feedback, you can open a [GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/discussions) or a [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/issues).

Reviewer 2: I think the migration steps should be better described in the docs themselves rather than in the release notes.

Author: Thanks, @mmaltsev-ct. I'll adapt your suggestion in the release note. Will you also review the release note on the MC PR https://github.com/commercetools/commercetools-docs/pull/2900?

---
date: 2023-02-24
title: Custom Application deployment previews
description: Introducing deployment previews for Custom Applications.
type: announcement
topics:

>   - Merchant Center

Reviewer: @melindafekete I wanted to sync with you actually about the topics and see if there is a list of commonly used ones. I feel like often times we just pick some random words...

>   - Merchant Center

Reviewer 3: Oh, interesting, I can see that we don't have a set list defined for Custom Apps (like we do for the HTTP API, MC, Studio, etc.). I will create a Google doc for us to brainstorm and define which set of topics would be the most appropriate.

>   - Merchant Center

Reviewer 3: Current examples for other release notes are here: https://commercetools.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOCS/pages/105818548/Writing+release+notes

>   - Merchant Center

Reviewer: Sounds good, let's continue in the google doc. Thanks!

>   - Merchant Center

Reviewer 3: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12fMDajZPyrTr31S34E-TKsdOcTJOEpY214DSN_kRXgk/edit#

  - Configuration
---

> Custom Applications now let you generate [Deployment previews](./concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment.

Reviewer 2: @melindafekete, no, this was not possible before :) The legacy approach is just a workaround. We need to highlight this then if it's not clear. Regarding the timeline: we have a more advanced vision for this feature that we would like to implement later in the future. I'd suggest coming back to the discussion around removing the legacy instructions when we will be releasing the next iteration. Here are the updated release notes, please let me know what you think (cc: @Anshuman71):

Custom Applications now let you generate [Deployment previews](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/docs/deployment-previews/website/src/releases/2023-02/concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment.

The [legacy workaround](https://docs.commercetools.com/custom-applications/help-needed#using-a-test-or-staging-environment-for-my-custom-application) required the creation of multiple Custom Applications and the usage of a dynamic configuration with the help of environment variables. We implemented the new feature to decrease the maintenance efforts for the engineering teams working on Custom Applications and to improve the developer UX in general. Please beware that as we continue improving this feature, we will eventually remove the instructions for the legacy solution from our documentation.

As always, if you have questions or feedback, you can open a [GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/discussions) or a [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/issues).

> Custom Applications now let you generate [Deployment previews](./concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment.

Author: Thanks, @mmaltsev-ct. @melindafekete and @mmaltsev-ct, I've reworked the suggestion. I don't think sharing the "legacy method docs deprecation" is a good idea without the fixed date. Maybe we can share the date in a future release note of deployment previews.

---

Custom Applications now let you generate [Deployment previews](../concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment.

Emulating Custom Application previews with the [legacy workaround](../help-needed#legacy-workaround) required creating multiple Custom Applications and dynamic configurations using environment variables. Deployment previews provide a better developer experience by complementing your existing Custom Application. 

We recommend using deployment previews for the upcoming releases of your Custom Applications, but we'll keep the legacy workaround documentation in the meantime.

As always, if you have questions or feedback, you can open a [GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/discussions) or a [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/issues).

> Custom Applications now let you generate [Deployment previews](./concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment.

Reviewer 3: Agree with you @Anshuman71 that we shouldn't mention the legacy docs deprecation without a timeline, but then let's not mention the legacy docs at all. Let's just make the recommendation to use the new feature and stop there. We can always make the announcement later if we have the specifics.

As for the rest of the release note, it looks good, I'm just not sure what you mean by 'by complementing your existing Custom Application'? I also liked Maxim's point about the lower maintenance efforts, which seems to have not made it into your version.

> You can add a deployment preview using the Merchant Center by assigning it a static URL of the deployed Custom Application.

Reviewer 3: @Anshuman71 let me know if you have any questions about this one :)

> You can add a deployment preview using the Merchant Center by assigning it a static URL of the deployed Custom Application.

Author: @melindafekete, this section was reworked heavily let me know if it still has ambiguity.

---
date: 2023-03-03
title: Custom Applications deployment previews
description: Introducing deployment previews for Custom Applications.
type: announcement
topics:
  - Merchant Center
  - Configuration
---

> Custom Applications now let you generate [Deployment previews](../concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Applications now let you generate [deployment previews](/concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features before publishing your application to the production environment.
```

Reviewer: Nit: the sentence might be a bit confusing, as it seems that you can't use the production version without a preview.

```suggestion
Custom Applications now let you generate [deployment previews](/concepts/deployment-previews), where you can test new features without affecting the production version of your application.
```

> Emulating Custom Application previews with the [legacy workaround](../help-needed#legacy-workaround) required you to create multiple Custom Applications and dynamic configurations using environment variables. Deployment previews work without creating a new Custom Application in the Merchant Center, leading to less maintenance and better developer experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Emulating Custom Application previews with the [legacy workaround](/help-needed#legacy-workaround) required you to create multiple Custom Applications and dynamic configurations using environment variables. Deployment previews work without creating a new Custom Application in the Merchant Center, leading to less maintenance and better developer experience.
```

Reviewer: Nit: the "dynamic configurations using environment variables" is still needed for the URL part, I would maybe rephrase this a bit.

```suggestion
If you were using the [legacy workaround](../help-needed#legacy-workaround) by creating multiple Custom Applications with different entry points, we recommend migrating  to deployment previews where you only need to configure one Custom Application. This aims to provide less maintenance and a better developer experience.
```

> 
> We recommend using deployment previews for the upcoming releases of your Custom Applications.

Reviewer: Can be removed

```suggestion
```
